
## Dengue virus is a common mosquito-borne disease.

Dengue is a mosquito-borne viral disease that has rapidly spread to all regions of WHO in recent years. Dengue virus is transmitted by female mosquitoes mainly of the species Aedes aegypti and, to a lesser extent, Ae. albopictus.
 These
mosquitoes are also vectors of chikungunya, yellow fever and Zika viruses. Dengue is widespread throughout the tropics, with local variations in risk influenced by climate parameters as well as social and environmental factors.
The World Health Organization sees dengue as "fast emerging pandemic-prone viral disease" that is prevalent in many parts of the world. Dengue is a mosquito-borne viral infection that causes severe flu-like illness. In the past 50 years, incidence of dengue has increased 30 fold.
 Dengue is spread by Aedes aegypti mosquito is the vector which transmits virus that causes dengue. The viruses are passed on to humans through infected female Aedes mosquito. Female Aedes mosquito mainly acquires the virus while feeding on the blood of someone who is infected by dengue. In this article, we are going to talk about natural mosquito repellents that can help you prevent dengue.
The World Health Organization sees dengue as "fast emerging pandemic-prone viral disease" that is prevalent in many parts of the world. Dengue is a mosquito-borne viral infection that causes severe flu-like illness. In the past 50 years, incidence of dengue has increased 30 fold.
 Dengue is spread by Aedes aegypti mosquito is the vector which transmits virus that causes dengue. The viruses are passed on to humans through infected female Aedes mosquito. Female Aedes mosquito mainly acquires the virus while feeding on the blood of someone who is infected by dengue.
 In this article, we are going to talk about natural mosquito repellents that can help you prevent dengue.
Dengue fever is an illness you can get from the bite of a mosquito carrying one of four types of dengue virus (DENV). The virus is most commonly found in tropical and subtropical regions, including Central and South America, Africa, parts of Asia and the Pacific Islands.
Dengue is a mosquito-borne viral disease widely spread in tropical and subtropical regions. The disease is transmitted by Aedes mosquitoes, which breed in the peridomestic environment. While most of the clinical cases present a febrile illness, severe forms including hemorrhagic fevers and shock with fatalities are reported.
 As dengue is a “viral hemorrhagic fever”, the disease is under European surveillance. It is by far the most important mosquito-borne viral disease affecting humans worldwide; tens of millions of cases occur each year resulting in approximately 20,000-25,000 deaths mainly in children. There are four serologically distinct dengue viruses, so people living in a dengue-endemic area can have several dengue infections in their lifetime. There is currently no vaccine available for dengue. Dengue is endemic in most of the European Overseas Countries, Territories and Departments located in tropical areas. In continental Europe limited outbreaks may occur in areas infested by Aedes albopictus, an invasive mosquito species that spread over the past twenty years.
Dengue is a mosquito-borne viral disease widely spread in tropical and subtropical regions. The disease is transmitted by Aedes mosquitoes, which breed in the peridomestic environment. While most of the clinical cases present a febrile illness, severe forms including hemorrhagic fevers and shock with fatalities are reported.
 As dengue is a “viral hemorrhagic fever”, the disease is under European surveillance. It is by far the most important mosquito-borne viral disease affecting humans worldwide; tens of millions of cases occur each year resulting in approximately 20,000-25,000 deaths mainly in children. There are four serologically distinct dengue viruses, so people living in a dengue-endemic area can have several dengue infections in their lifetime.
 There is currently no vaccine available for dengue. Dengue is endemic in most of the European Overseas Countries, Territories and Departments located in tropical areas. In continental Europe limited outbreaks may occur in areas infested by Aedes albopictus, an invasive mosquito species that spread over the past twenty years.

## Preventing dengue.

Reduce mosquito habitat. The mosquitoes that carry the dengue virus typically live in and around houses, breeding in standing water that can collect in such things as used automobile tires. You can help lower mosquito populations by eliminating habitats where they lay their eggs.
 At least once a week, empty and clean containers that hold standing water, such as planting containers, animal dishes and flower vases. Keep standing water containers covered between cleanings.
The mosquitoes which breed dengue thrive in stagnant water containing objects like tires, plastic covers, flower pots, pet’s water bowls, etc. Reducing the habitat available for these mosquitoes (by getting rid of stagnant water to breed) can help prevent dengue.
The best way to prevent the disease is to prevent bites by infected mosquitoes, particularly if you are living in or traveling to a tropical area. This involves protecting yourself and making efforts to keep the mosquito population down. In 2019, the FDA approved a vaccine called Dengvaxia to help prevent the disease from occurring in adolescents aged 9 to 16 who have already been infected by dengue.
 But, there currently is no vaccine to prevent the general population from contracting it.
In the absence of an effective vaccine that protects humans from dengue, limiting contact between people and vectors is the most effective way to prevent dengue infections. Environmental management approaches involve eliminating the container habitats in which Aedes aegypti lay their eggs. Chemical control involves the use of insecticides to kill immature or adult mosquitoes.
 New chemical, biological, and genetic approaches are also being developed and may provide promising alternatives to control mosquito populations and prevent dengue infections.
The primary preventative measure to reduce dengue infections is the control of mosquito populations. Because the transmission of dengue requires mosquitoes as vectors, the spread of dengue can be limited by reducing mosquito populations. What can people at risk of dengue infections do to reduce the size of mosquito populations.
 One practical and recommended environmental management strategy is to eliminate unnecessary container habitats that collect water (such as plastic jars, bottles, cans, tires, and buckets) in which Aedes aegypti can lay their eggs (Figure 1). This strategy is called source reduction. When container habitats are removed and water storage containers are covered with a fine mesh to prevent mosquitoes from getting inside them, mosquitoes have fewer opportunities to lay eggs and cannot develop through their aquatic life stages. Source reduction can be effective when performed regularly, especially when members of a community are mobilized and educated about vector control.
The primary preventative measure to reduce dengue infections is the control of mosquito populations. Because the transmission of dengue requires mosquitoes as vectors, the spread of dengue can be limited by reducing mosquito populations. What can people at risk of dengue infections do to reduce the size of mosquito populations.
 One practical and recommended environmental management strategy is to eliminate unnecessary container habitats that collect water (such as plastic jars, bottles, cans, tires, and buckets) in which Aedes aegypti can lay their eggs (Figure 1). This strategy is called source reduction. When container habitats are removed and water storage containers are covered with a fine mesh to prevent mosquitoes from getting inside them, mosquitoes have fewer opportunities to lay eggs and cannot develop through their aquatic life stages.
 Source reduction can be effective when performed regularly, especially when members of a community are mobilized and educated about vector control.

## Treating dengue.

There is no specific medicine to treat dengue infection. If you think you may have dengue fever, you should use pain relievers with acetaminophen and avoid medicines with aspirin, which could worsen bleeding. You should also rest, drink plenty of fluids, and see your doctor.
 If you start to feel worse in the first 24 hours after your fever goes down, you should get to a hospital immediately to be checked for complications.
