
## Basic concepts of programming.

Because these are foundational concepts that apply to every language, there are many resources for learning them. You just need to understand the concepts because you’ll learn about how they’re handled when you’re learning the programming language. Here are some resources for learning more about these programming fundamentals:
I'm writing these guides about the basics in a way that I'll assume you have very little knowledge in programming. I want this content to provide anyone “walking in off the street” the basics to be able to write their first program with the Java programming language with as little pain as possible.
There are many different opinions about which programming language is the best for beginners, but no matter which language you choose, there are some basic concepts you’ll need to understand. Learning these fundamentals will lay a solid foundation for learning any language. As a programmer, your first language is just the beginning.
 There are always new languages and technology to learn. Here are some of the most basic coding concepts:
A common mistake that a student or beginner commits while learning programming is skipping the fundamentals or chapter 1 and directly jumping to the next chapter right away. To understand the advanced concepts of programming you need to be very clear about the fundamentals of programming. If you will be doing the same mistake then at some point, you will end up with lots of confusion and you will have to come back to your basics again.
 These fundamentals are Data Structures, variables, control structures, syntax, tools, or text editors. When you start doing programming pick one programming language, stick with it, and clear all the basics of programming first before going to the next level. Your overall time to learn to code will be definitely saved if you will follow this path.
A major part of the tutorial has been explained by taking C as programming language and then we have shown how similar concepts work in Java and Python. So after completion of this tutorial, you will be quite familiar with these popular programming languages.
So, let's get started with our first topic: The 5 basic concepts of any computer programming language. You might say, “Why are we talking about any programming language? I thought this was about Java”.
 Well, I've found that it's important to remember that a lot of programming languages are very similar, and knowing the fundamentals that are common among all programming languages will help you transition into any other programming language if you need to! For example, with the core Java programming knowledge I had obtained, it took me less than a month to learn how to program in a language called Objective C (which is used for iPhone apps). That's powerful stuff!
Variables. You might remember the term variable from high school algebra. Don’t worry, you won’t have to solve any linear equations (that’s one thing computers do much better than people).
 Variables are used in every programming language. They’re a way to store information so you can use it later.
A common mistake beginners do while learning programming is just reading a book or looking at the sample code on their desktop without practicing it. It’s easy to read about the loops, and variables, and get all the things in your head but actual programming doesn’t work in this way. You really need to get your hands dirty in coding and keep practicing it regularly.
 When you start programming you face a lot of problems, you get stuck there, you will be asked to implement the code practically and find the solution for a specific problem and there you will scratch your head while implementing the code. When you write the code, play with the code, change your code to see different results, optimize the code and try different solutions, your logical thinking ability get improves day by day and you eventually learn a lot of things that make you a better programmer. When you start coding, practice the same code or sample again and again until or unless you don’t need to refer to the same book or resource from where you have learned. Also, build your own project, participate in coding challenges, play coding-related games, and practice it at your own end every single day.
A common mistake beginners do while learning programming is just reading a book or looking at the sample code on their desktop without practicing it. It’s easy to read about the loops, and variables, and get all the things in your head but actual programming doesn’t work in this way. You really need to get your hands dirty in coding and keep practicing it regularly.
 When you start programming you face a lot of problems, you get stuck there, you will be asked to implement the code practically and find the solution for a specific problem and there you will scratch your head while implementing the code. When you write the code, play with the code, change your code to see different results, optimize the code and try different solutions, your logical thinking ability get improves day by day and you eventually learn a lot of things that make you a better programmer. When you start coding, practice the same code or sample again and again until or unless you don’t need to refer to the same book or resource from where you have learned.
 Also, build your own project, participate in coding challenges, play coding-related games, and practice it at your own end every single day.

## Intelligent programming.

Programming is how you tell a computer what to do. Despite all of the buzz around artificial intelligence, computers don’t think. They can only do what they’re told, and they can only do it if they’re told in a specific manner.
 Computers only understand binary code: 1s and 0s. While you could program a computer in binary code, it would be very difficult and take a long time.
Yes. It is completely possible to learn to program on your own. There are many self-paced courses available on sites like Coursera and Udemy.
 You can also learn from YouTube tutorials, blogs, and books. Whatever your preferred learning style, you can find a course that suits it. Springboard combines self-paced classes with career guidance. They even have a job guarantee for students who meet eligibility requirements.
Yes. It is completely possible to learn to program on your own. There are many self-paced courses available on sites like Coursera and Udemy.
 You can also learn from YouTube tutorials, blogs, and books. Whatever your preferred learning style, you can find a course that suits it. Springboard combines self-paced classes with career guidance.
 They even have a job guarantee for students who meet eligibility requirements.
On the off chance that you’ve never thought about coding, it very well maybe not challenging to shape confusion. But instead of being a bunch of garbled images just comprehended by nerds, you may be amazed to learn that it’s considerably more about discovering answers for issues than concocting complex calculations that 99% of individuals will not comprehend.
While it may be difficult to believe that children can learn the intricacies of coding, it’s important to remember that computer programming is its own language — and children are experts at absorbing new languages due to their brain plasticity, rapid neural linking abilities, and limited inhibitions.
While the lists telling the highest paying skills and programming languages might give you an idea, don’t make important decisions based on them. Be confident about your passion and the language you know. Remember that people make money, not a programming language.
 If you are skilled in a particular language and willing to push yourself, those highest paying skills are of no use.
Again don’t try to consume all the theories or concepts of data structures and algorithms in one go. Learn a single topic, practice on the sites we have mentioned above and then move to the next topic. You can adapt a specific learning strategy that is fit for you.
 One we have already mentioned in the previous step (2:1 ratio).
