
## Sims 4 cc top accessories

There’s no question or doubt that tops continue to be everyone’s go-to. And we could never get bored of exploring new prints or designs. Since accessory tops make our sims’ outfits come to life, we’ve decided to put together a list of the latest accessory tops custom content for you. There are plenty of cool trends that creators have been working on. Let’s unfold the list together!
hello! i absolutely LOVE your lace top!! it's so simple yet so so sooo pretty 💖💖💖 do you think you could maybe consider making an accessory version as well? i would just love to use it under some low cut tops. no worries if you dont want to, though!! love your work!! have a nice day (✿ ´ ꒳ `) 💕
I have made a coat, (clothing top) which now i can see would better suit being an accessory, so that clothes can be worn under it, however i am struggling to convert it, i thought it would be as simple as changing the category, but that didn't work, so i tried to start again with the blender file... transferring the weights etc... to a necklace, it doesn't show up in game at all.I have tried to find tutorials but having very limited understanding of all of these new tools its difficult for me to follow.

## Sims 4 cc outfit

So, you wouldn't use a ring or bracelet for the final package? I wanted to be sure I was giving the right advice, so I took a look at the CAS part of the accessory jackets I have for Sims 4 and it looked like many of them used a ring or bracelet for the final product. As in, a ring or bracelet was cloned for the final package file. So now I'm a bit confused.
You need to clone something like a ring or a bracelet to start--something with just one mesh group (don't use a necklace). This file will be the file you import your meshes and textures into. You also will want to clone some sort of a coat or top or something, but without seeing the coat you made I can't tell you what would be a good item to clone. The coat you clone will be used to transfer weights and the UV-1. Make sure your mesh is UV mapped appropriately; this would be your UV_0. You'll need to vertex paint, as well. Don't delete the sim's body parts that are covered by your mesh like you would do with regular clothing. You can, however, delete parts of your mesh that you made that aren't going to be seen. Make sure you have the appropriate cut number applied which, if there's just one mesh group, will be GEOM 0000.
1). S4S uses cut numbers to define what part of the mesh in the original package will be replaced with what part of the mesh in the imported blend. The order is very important. Remember that you are not creating a package from scratch, you are replacing the existing information. Unfortunately, not all of it is easily edited, which leads us to the next step;2). So there is this thing called slotrayinteractions which basically dictates the position of arms in the game. The parts of the body that contain, like, groin/thigh area have that information while a necklace or a ring do not. So when you clone a ring and import a whole coat in it, you introduce a lot of new bones that are not listed in slotrayinteractions. And this can cause extreme distortions. If you won’t see it in your game, someone else might see them in theirs. So instead of cloning a accessory, it would be a better idea to clone something that already comes with those bones like, for example, a lingerie set or something similar that is made of one meshgroup. If you will delete the body parts, you will have no problem converting it to accessory;3). When choosing the reference for weight and uv transfer, you should be picking not something that is of the same category of clothing, but something that is of the same length, has the same bottom (skirt or pants/nude legs), has as little sculpted details as possible. So if you’re making a coat that does not reach knees for feminine frame, you can clone DressPanels. Bear in mind that this item comes with skirt bones so you cannot import in in the lingerie set. It is best to just delete those bones

## Sims 4 cc eye shadow

This Image For Tumblr Sims Cc Makeup Accessories - Sims 4 Eyeshadow Cc Mac is high quality PNG picture material, which can be used for your creative projects or simply as a decoration for your design & website content. Image For Tumblr Sims Cc Makeup Accessories - Sims 4 Eyeshadow Cc Mac is a totally free PNG image with transparent background and its resolution is 500x300. You can always download and modify the image size according to your needs. NicePNG also collects a large amount of related image material, such as blue tumblr ,stars tumblr,makeup brush .
If you are having problems seeing the CAPTCHA, please clear your browser's cache and cookies and ensure that you do not have any browser addons or extensions that interfere with the display of the CAPTCHA. Then, close the CAPTCHA window and click on the register button to open the CAPTCHA again.
