
## The basics of programming.

If you are completely new to Computer Programming, then we recommend you to read this tutorial twice or even thrice. First reading will not give you much idea, but during your second reading, you will start grasping most of the concepts and you will enjoy writing computer programs.
Because these are foundational concepts that apply to every language, there are many resources for learning them. You just need to understand the concepts because you’ll learn about how they’re handled when you’re learning the programming language. Here are some resources for learning more about these programming fundamentals:
Naturally enough, you should start with a clear idea of what you want the program to do. Think in terms of the information your program needs, the feats of calculation and manipulation the program needs to do, and the information the program should report back to you. At this level of planning, you should be thinking in general terms, not in terms of some specific computer language.
There are many different opinions about which programming language is the best for beginners, but no matter which language you choose, there are some basic concepts you’ll need to understand. Learning these fundamentals will lay a solid foundation for learning any language. As a programmer, your first language is just the beginning. There are always new languages and technology to learn. Here are some of the most basic coding concepts:
This tutorial has been prepared for the beginners who are willing to learn computer programming but they are unable to learn it due to lack of proper guidance. We are confident that after completing this tutorial, you will be at a level where you can code in C Programming language and will have a basic understanding of Java and Python programming languages as well from where you can continue further.
The moral here is that you should develop the habit of planning before coding. Use the ancient but honorable pen-and-pencil technology to jot down the objectives of your program and to outline the design. If you do so, you eventually reap substantial dividends in time saved and satisfaction gained .
Variables. You might remember the term variable from high school algebra. Don’t worry, you won’t have to solve any linear equations (that’s one thing computers do much better than people). Variables are used in every programming language. They’re a way to store information so you can use it later.
Data Structure and Algorithms are the heart of programming. Once you are comfortable with any of the languages and making some basic programs, the next thing you should do is learning data structures and algorithms. You will get better at building your problem-solving skills if you understand the fundamentals of data structure and Algorithms. Understand that not all the data structures can be used everywhere so for any kind of problem firstly you need to implement an algorithm which is a step by step process to solve a specific problem and then you need to choose the right data structure to solve the problem. A right combination of data structure and algorithm is really important in solving the problems.Learn to implement the data structures and algorithms, practice it in your programming language every day. GeeksforGeeks is good for beginners to start with practicing the problem on data structure and algorithms. Below are some useful tips to follow while learning these two fundamentals.
Now that you have a clear design for your program, you can begin to implement it by writing the code. That is, you translate your program design into the C language. Here is where you really have to put your knowledge of C to work. You can sketch your ideas on paper, but eventually you have to get your code into the computer. The mechanics of this process depend on your programming environment. We'll present the details for some common environments soon. In general, you use a text editor to create what is called a source code file. This file contains the C rendition of your program design. Listing 1.1 shows an example of C source code.

## Intermediate programming.

Yes. It is completely possible to learn to program on your own. There are many self-paced courses available on sites like Coursera and Udemy. You can also learn from YouTube tutorials, blogs, and books. Whatever your preferred learning style, you can find a course that suits it. Springboard combines self-paced classes with career guidance. They even have a job guarantee for students who meet eligibility requirements.
In the Intermediate Pathway children can choose between AI and Coding modules. Each module can be taken independently and in any order depending on the child’s ability and interest. Our modules range from text based programming languages like Python and Java, to app development using Thunkable or MIT App Inventor. In the Introduction to AI module, children understand the technology around them through hands-on learning activities. They make simple machine learning models like facial recognition, chatbots and recommendation systems like Netflix.
After a couple of years, you will have gained so much experience that you are visibly better at coding. You will feel a clear change of perspective, and find yourself regularly in the situation where you share your knowledge with newer colleagues. Time to step up the ladder to the title of intermediate developer.
One thing characteristic for intermediate developer, though, is being fascinated by third party tools. Obviously, third party tools take work off their plates and make life as a software developer easier. They solve common problems, make code slimmer, and let the developer focus on the actual development task.
Your journey doesn’t end when you are finished with your project. Explore more, explore as much as you can in the computer science field. Computer Science is a vast and rich field so analyze what fascinates you the most. You can explore different fields such as Machine Learning, Cloud Computing, Systems Programming, Mobile App Development, Blockchain, Virtual Reality, Web Development, etc. There are a lot of projects on Github and a lot of resources available on the internet. As per your interest, you can find some tutorials or projects on the internet. Learn from there and try to make some projects on it.
Enhance your Java knowledge. Java is widely used and fairly easy to learn, making it a good choice for a second language. Professional computer programmers usually know more than one programming language. Many of the skills you learn in your first language are transferable to other languages, so you won’t be starting from scratch.
Multiple programming languages can help you solve the same programming problem. However, you need to select a language that you feel is relevant to perform your task. If you decide that a language does not suit your business requirement, you can always move on to a new language. Your skill in the chosen language will also be a deciding factor. Expected software system response time, a number of simultaneous users, security, maintains, compatibility with web, mobile, devices are few other factors to consider while choosing a language.
In Module 2 they learn more complex concepts like variables, functions, operators and clone blocks. This allows them to make their own chatbots, chase games, capstone projects and harness the skills to start off with simpler stages of game development!
